**DFD - Table of Contents**
- [DFD](#dfd)
	- [Symbols](#symbols)
	- [DFD Guidelines](#dfd-guidelines)
	- [DFD Operations](#dfd-operations)
	- [Levels](#levels)
		- [Context diagram, Level 0](#context-diagram-level-0)
		- [Level 1](#level-1)
		- [Higher(depth) Level DFDs](#higherdepth-level-dfds)
		- [Decomposition - level 2, 3...](#decomposition---level-2-3)
	- [Numbering of bubbles in DFD](#numbering-of-bubbles-in-dfd)
	- [Balancing a DFD](#balancing-a-dfd)
	- [Data Dictionary](#data-dictionary)
	- [Semantics for Data Definition](#semantics-for-data-definition)
	- [Commonly Made Errors in DFD](#commonly-made-errors-in-dfd)


# DFD

## Symbols
- external entity - rectangle 
- process/bubble - circle
- data flow - directed arrow
- data store - rectangle from one side open
- output - slant square

## DFD Guidelines
- introduce All external entities at context level **only**.
- introduce output entity directly at required level, not at context level.
- Only 3 to 7 bubbles per DFD level should be allowed at level 1+.
- Each bubble should be decomposed to between 3 and 7 bubbles.
- All functions of the system must be captured in the DFD model, No function specified in the SRS document should be omitted.
- Only those functions specified in SRS document should be represented, Do not assume extra functionality of the system not specified by the SRS document.
- Represent data that flows between bubbles and not the conditions depending on which a process is invoked.

## DFD Operations
- Synchronou - two bubbles are directly connected by a data flow arrow
- Asynchronous -	two bubbles are connected via a data store.

## Levels
### Context diagram, Level 0
- will have 1 diagram
- The context diagram is also called as the level 0 DFD. 
- A context diagram shows Data input from External System to the system, Output data generated by the system.
- More than 1 entities external to the system and interacting with it.
- Exactly one bubble
- Data flow occurring between the system and the external entities.
- Establishes context of the system, & is used to represent
  - Data sources
  - Data sinks

### Level 1
- will have one diagram
- Examine the SRS / Requirements document
- Represent each high-level function as a bubble.
- Represent data input to every high-level function.
- Represent data output from every high-level  function.

### Higher(depth) Level DFDs
- Each high-level function is separately decomposed into subfunctions:
  - Identify the subfunctions of the function
  - Identify the data input to each subfunction
  - Identify the data output from each subfunction
- These are represented as subsequent level DFDs

### Decomposition - level 2, 3...
- should have exact number of diagrams as bubbles of previous level
- Decomposition of a bubble - Also called factoring or  exploding.
- Each bubble is decomposed to between 3 to 7 bubbles.
- Too few bubbles make decomposition superfluous
  - If a bubble is decomposed to just one or two bubbles, then this decomposition is redundant.
- Too many bubbles, More than 7 bubbles at any level of a DFD.
  - Makes the DFD model hard to understand.
- Decomposition of a bubble should be carried on until, A level at which the function of the bubble can be described using a simple algorithm

## Numbering of bubbles in DFD
- Numbers help in uniquely identifying any bubble from its bubble number.
- if The bubble at context level Assigned number 0.
- Bubbles at level 1 should be Numbered 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, etc
- When a bubble numbered x is decomposed, Its children bubble are numbered x.1, x.2, x.3, etc.

## Balancing a DFD
- Data flowing into or out of a bubble Must match the data flows at the next level of DFD.
- for example if a bubble X at level 1 consist 1 input and 2 output then on expansion of X at level 2, the input and output count should match


## Data Dictionary
- A DFD is always accompanied by a data dictionary.
- A data dictionary lists all data items appearing in a DFD
  - All data names along with the purpose of  the data items.
  - Definition of all composite data items in terms of their component data items.
- For example, a data dictionary entry may be, `grossPay = regularPay+overtimePay`
- Significance of Data Dictionary
  - Provides a standard terminology for all data in a project.
  - A consistent vocabulary for data is very important as Different team members tend to use different terms to refer to the same data, and it causes unnecessary confusion.
  - Data dictionary provides the definition of different data, in terms of their component elements.

## Semantics for Data Definition
- **=**, represents **equivalence**, e.g.,  a=b+c means that a represents b and c.
- **+**, denotes **composition** of data items, e.g., a+b represents data a and b.
- **[,,,]**, represents **selection**, i.e. any one of the data items listed inside the square bracket can occur, e.g., [a,b] represents either a occurs or  b occurs.
- **( )**, contents inside the bracket represent **optional** data, which may or may not appear, e.g., a+(b) represents either a or a+b occurs.
- **{}**, represents **iterative** data definition, e.g., {name}5 represents five name data or {name}* represents 0 or more instances of name data.
- __* *__, Anything appearing within * * is a **comment**.


## Commonly Made Errors in DFD
- Drawing more than one bubble in context diagram.
- Unbalanced DFDs, input, output count mismatch between levels.
- Forgetting to mention names of the data flows
- Unrepresented functions or data
- External entities appearing at higher level DFDs
- Trying to represent control aspects
- A bubble decomposed into too many bubbles in the next level
- Terminating decomposition too early
- using Nouns in naming bubbles








